New Vite plugin docs for local development (#20586)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/workers/local-development/environment-variables.mdx

You can also define [environment variables as `[vars]`](/workers/wrangler/environments/#_top) in your Wrangler configuration (for `development`, `staging`, `production`, etc). This is a good way to manage environment-based configuration that you **want checked into your repository** (for example, non-sensitive or shared environment defaults). Using a `.dev.vars` file is specifically for local-only secrets or configuration that you do not want in version control and only want to inject in local dev sessions.

## Basic setup

<Steps>

1.  Create a `.dev.vars` file in your project root.

2.  Add key-value pairs:

    ```ini title=".dev.vars"
    API_HOST="localhost:3000"
    DEBUG="true"
    SECRET_TOKEN="my-local-secret-token"
    ```

3.  Run your `dev` command

        **Wrangler**
        <PackageManagers type="exec" pkg="wrangler" args="dev" />

        **Vite plugin**

>         <PackageManagers type="run" args="dev" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <PackageManagers type="exec" pkg="vite" args="dev" />
```

(make the two commands equivalent)

</Steps>

## Multiple local environments with `.dev.vars`

To simulate different local environments, you can:

<Steps>

1.  Create a file named `.dev.vars.<environment-name>` . For example, we'll use `.dev.vars.staging`.

2.  Add key-value pairs:
    ```ini title=".dev.vars.staging"
    API_HOST="staging.localhost:3000"
    DEBUG="false"
    SECRET_TOKEN="staging-token"
    ```

> 3.  Run your `dev` command with an `--env` flag:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.  Specify the environment when running the `dev` command:
```

        **Wrangler**

        <PackageManagers type="exec" pkg="wrangler" args="dev --env staging" />

        **Vite plugin**

>         <PackageManagers type="run" args="dev --env staging" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <PackageManagers type="exec" pkg="vite" args="dev" prefix="CLOUDFLARE_ENV=staging" />
```

        Only the values from `.dev.vars.staging` will be applied instead of `.dev.vars`.

</Steps>

## Learn more

- To learn how to configure multiple environments in Wrangler configuration, [read the documenation](/workers/wrangler/environments/#_top).

> - To learn how to use Wrangler environments and Vite environments together, [read the Vite plugin documentation](/workers/vite-plugin/reference/cloudflare-environments/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To learn how to use environments with the Vite plugin, see [Cloudflare Environments](/workers/vite-plugin/reference/cloudflare-environments/)
```
